Date: 8.30.25 - Subject: Thoughts on github. We've just begun diving into the world of Git. I learned that a lot of programmers are now using it so that they can store their code not only locally, but remotely. This is helpful because if, for some reason, code got deleted, you would be able to use Git to access it still.

Date 9.5.25 - Subject: This weeks recap. We started making ideas for an app that we are going to create. We also set up flask, whcih is used to host a python web server. The assignment was pretty straight forward, but I ran into one issue. I didn't have tree installed, so I installed it with homebrew. After that, everything else worked great.

Date 9.12.25 - Subject: Merge conflicts. When you run into merge conflicts, you should enter the command git pull --no-rebase. After that, you check the file and will see conflict markers. To fix the conflict, you have to edit the file and decide which version to keep, as well as remove the conflict markers. Finally, you will git add, commit, and push.

Date 9.17.25 - Subject: Synchronous vs Asyncrhonous. In synchronous, the code runs line by line in sequence. This means eat task must finish before the next one starts. If a task takes a long time, the whole program is stuck until it’s done. In Asynchronous, code can start a task and then move on without waiting for it to finish. When the task is done, it notifies the program. This makes programs more efficient and responsive.

Date 9.26.25 - Subject: Blob storage. Blob storage is a cloud storage solution for unstructured data, often used to store large amounts of binary data like images, videos, and documents. You would want to use this type of storage to store big files cheaply, reliably, and on a large scale.

Date 10.3.25 - Subject: Project management - Kanban. The Kanban is a "seeing board" used for project management. It works simply, with three columns labled to do, in progress, and complete, with tasks underneath. Using the kanban eliminates unecessary time spent on time management for projects, which is almost never accurate.

Date 10.3.25 - Subject: gantt charts. A gantt chart is a project management technique where you can show tasks across a timeline, helping you organize a project schedule and its progress. There are some flaws with it, those being that humans are notoriously bad at estimating how long something will take to do. To fix this, use the gantt chart flexibly. Use the first version as a starting point, and adjust it as the project progresses.

Date 10.6.25 - Subject: Implementation. When implementing designs, there are many factors to consider. With many people working together, challenges can come about from dependencies, differences of opinion, differences in engagement and levels of capability, personal issues, and office space. You also have to keep in mind company goals like thinking about pressing deadlines, cost control reputation. On top of that, there is teechnical complexity with tools, processes, management, and culture. Balancing everything can be difficult, but clear communication and flexibility make it work.
